Welcome back.
In the last video we created the hate gym for the Harris section.
We included the top nomination bar with the menu links the main background image and also the featured
text.
So in this video we'll go on to make our website look more like the finished project by uddin the CSA
s.
So going to change the link colour and background for the navigation and we're also going to style the
text and make sure that it's horizontally and vertically aligned to the background image.
We'll also take a look at the bootstrap grid system and I'll show you how to add a column so our website
to make it responsive.
So let's get started in our text editor.
We need to pull up the side bar and go into our custom see SS So just below the body still wouldn't
the global section.
The first thing needs art is a max width for the images.
I am going to set them to 100 percent.
Which stops.
Image is stretched too big.
So let's create a comment for the nut bar section.
So we're going to get started with the nut bar section and the main navigation has the class of mudbath.
So this is a PA will be style first so dot and then move bar.
So we need to add the purple background colour.
So the background is gone have a number of 9 7 6 8 9 C.
Let's check.
That's working okay.
So the background colour has changed.
But we need to get rid of the margin which is at the very bottom and push in the background image down.
So we simply do that by changing the margin bottom.
To be zero.
Okay.
And the next thing I want to do is remove the default border.
It's pretty hard to see the default border around the navigation bar but we can remove the by just send
the border to be zero.
And then now we need to change the text for the logo and the navigation.
So bookstop has a lot of classes and a lot see assess which is included as standard and it can be sometimes
difficult to find exactly which class we need to amend.
So one of the easiest ways to do that is to go into the browser developer tools so when Chrome need
to right click and select inspect element.
And then if you select the magnifying glass.
And then just hover over the element we need to change.
And click.
And then we should get a list of the classes which is affecting this particular element so we can see
the first element is the killer for the nut bar default nut bar brun's and that's in the bootstrap mini
fied version so we can change that colour.
So I'm going to copy.
The class which effects that colour.
And then back into our custom Yes.
Let's paste this in.
And change the colour.
To be white.
And that changes the colour of the logo.
We need to also do the same for the navigation links.
Which is a home blog.
Our latest news.
Solar gain.
Do the same.
Select the magnifying glass and choose one of the links.
And again we can override the standard defog grey colour by copying the bootstrap class.
Because we also want this to be a white book in our dis in the same section.
And that changes those to white.
And then on the smaller mobile view we also want the free icon bars to be white too.
So again select the magnifying glass.
If you can just select one of the icon bars and make sure we can find one which controls a background
colour.
Copy the glasses and then let's put those into.
I will see SS.
And let's change the default back runkel.
We changed to white.
Refresh.
Great There we go so that icon bars are white now.
So it's all the style and we need to add to the top navigation bar so we can move down to the featured
area and we can start working on position in the image and the text.
So let's create a new comment for the feature section.
And so I can add the text over the image.
We need to use some relative arm absolute position and so we need to make the contain a relative token
position.
The text would in it.
So the container for the feature section.
Had a class of feature which is a custom class we added ourself.
So let's start by adding that set in the position to be relative.
And because we want the buckstone image to stretch to be the same as a browser we need to override the
maximum width of 100 percent.
By us in the feature.
Image class.
And instead of mucks with would it's going to set the whit.
This time of 100 percent.
And this means that the image can stretch slightly larger or slightly smaller than the original size
of the image.
So now we've got the container position relative we now need to change the text to be absolute.
So we added a custom class surrounded text which was a class of feature text.
So next let's start with that.
So first position is going to be set to absolute.
Because we use an absolute position in openness above the top.
And the bond position.
To be equal.
So they're both going to be zero.
Another because our position absolute.
The text now appears all over the image.
So you can start work in getting it horizontally and vertically aligned.
So going to start by a vertically line in the text now.
So first of all I'm going to just typed this out and then I'll explain what this is do and afterwards.
So the feature text class.
And then before.
So set the content to be empty.
The display type to be inline block.
Hate to take you 100 percent of the container.
And lastly vertical the line to be middle.
And we'll come back to that just in a moment we'll just first of all the styles for the text.
So the feature class.
And then the P.
Which surrounds the text.
So this is going to also have the display type of inline block.
And will all come clear soon.
Also a vertical line to be middle.
The text alone will be centralized in the div..
The to be 100 percent of the container.
So if we go back into the browser and if we take a look at the finished project there's a back from
quilla quite faint but it surrounds the text which has rounded edges and it also semitransparent.
So let's add that now.
So to start work in the background colour.
Which has a r.g. BE a value.
So first of all we need to add the Red Queen and blue values.
So to create the grey colour.
The first value is 74.
82.
95.
And then the last file is the alpha posti.
So I want that to be not point two.
Which is the same as 20 percent or pass city.
The background is got roundly Connors which you get by in a border radius.
Of 10 pixels the text colour is white.
Okay so there's the background for the text in place.
So basically what we do in here is we create in some text and we're adding some styles to it and then
were adding a fake element just before the text so we can use that as a full height reference to align
the text in the DIV.
So before the text were creating an empty div which has no content were set and bowl for the big div
and the text to be in line block so they appear side by side.
Because the fake element as a height of 100 percent.
This will take up the full height of the div..
And then because this is the height of the div well can then set the vertical line to be middle and
this will cause the text to be aligned in the middle of the div.
So you get this trick to work would it need to do one more thing because by default inline block has
a gap between elements we need to remove this.
So we need to add a property which is zero width.
So it would change the font size to be zero.
That will remove the gap between the fake elements and the text.
Because we have set the font size to busy roll will there need to add the font size in the Peter Higgs.
So when I was to be forty eight pixels.
So let's say that and check on the browser.
Okay.
That's looking good.
That's now vertically aligned to the background image.
Um I can also see the semitransparent buckram colour.
So let's just a little bit a pun in just of 3 percent.
And space out the line height.
To be 80 pixels.
Well let's save and take a look at that.
Great.
That's looking a lot better now.
The next thing we need to do is align it horizontally in the diff.
So we're going to do that by adding some bootstrap columns.
So if we head back to get booster up dot com.
And then it will go in the CSA section.
And then select the grid system on the right.
And then scroll down to the grid options so bootstrap hires a 12 column grid system and to access that
we use the class prefix of call and end dush and then we can use the access for the number of columns
wide with Bonzi and extra small devices S M for small devices or tablets m.d. for medium devices or
desktops or LG for large desktops.
So we can create divs which display differently on smaller or larger devices.
So there's an example below if we want to create a div which has two parts and spans a full width of
the page each div needs take up six columns each and the same.
If we want to create free column side by side we'll give each div a class of four columns.
So let's put this into practice in our project back into the index page.
If we look for the div which surrounds the text.
Just after the feature text class we'll go into the bootstrap columns.
So I want the text to take up all the available space on a mobile view so I can ask cole X X Factor
small devices 12.
So I'll take up the full 12 columns on a small device.
If we don't want it to be full width on larger devices.
We can I'd call and eight 8 Start will take up a part of 12 or two thirds.
And then larger still on large desktops call LG 6.
So that will take up half the width of the web page.
So let's say that and take a look.
So if I scroll down to the small size you can see the text takes up the full width.
But once we hit the medium devices.
This div is only taken up eight parts because it's only taken up a party to leave in four columns on
the right hand side.
So to make sure that this device stays in the middle of the page we can add an offset on the left hand
side.
So decentralizes do we need to add an offset of two.
And the way we do that is call to the first one is mdi then dush offset.
And then off say two columns.
You said that too.
So let's say that unci that's working okay.
Great.
So the 8 column div is in the middle of the page.
We have two columns each side now and we'll do the same for the large devices because the large devices
is taken up six parts.
We need to add an offset of free.
So call LG.
Offsets free.
There you go.
And the boost of documentation's got some more information about the grid system and offset in there's
also saw more examples you can take a look at in the ostende section.
So that's video nearly finished.
Just one more thing we need to add before we go is if we shrink the browser down the text is pretty
large.
So we'll get down to the small tablet or mobile sizes we need to make sure that the text is smaller
so we can do that in our See assessed by adding a media query.
So let's add a mobile style comment.
Just at the very bottom of the page.
Okay so let's add a media query.
So art media.
Screen.
And will target the devices with a max.
We're out of 768 pixels by utzon seven hundred and sixty eight pixels.
This keeps in line with bootstraps media queries.
So it will go back up to the top of the grid system.
You can see the media query's site is a bootstrap uses.
So were set in media query for extra small devices less than 768 pixels.
Okay.
So to reduce the font size we need to add the class of feature text.
P.
And space after and there we go.
So we need to reduce the font size.
Let's set this to 28 pixels.
And also the line height like can be the same that can also be 28 pixels.
So let's save that and head back into the browser.
So we go back into the project and then shrink the browser down.
You can see that the text now scales down on the smaller devices arm fitted in the container.
And as we get larger and head demelza query.
We'll get the larger text sites look at the birth.
So while we're in the media query we can also just make the Freeling in the mobile view appear in the
centre of the page we can add that in the eye a section.
Because he's our list item hyperlinks.
So text the line centre.
There we go.
So great so that's it for this section.
That's all the CSF completed for the header.
So if you join me in the next video we'll continue with the website and move down to the welcome section.